ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies
with the release of the new james wan
horror film malignant i thought it would
be fitting to talk about the film that
started the career of one of the best
horror movie directors working today
released in 2004 saw was the
feature-length directorial debut of
james wan and started a horror franchise
that now spans nine films with the
latest film spiral being released
earlier this year saw is the
feature-length adaptation of a short
film of the same name written by james
wan and lei 1l who stars in both
adaptations the soft franchise is well
known for its gruesome traps bloody
kills and twist endings however like
other james juan original horror films
none of its sequels have managed to
capture the field that made the original
so special i'll be going over the events
that take place throughout the film and
explaining the twist ending that started
it all if you enjoy this video make sure
to click the like button as it really
helps the channel and i truly appreciate
it i also want to say thank you to
everyone for helping the channel reach 2
000 subscribers i truly appreciate each
and every one of you for the kindness
and support you all are showing to the
channel but without further ado
sit back and relax and join me as we
explore the bloody games
in saw our movie begins with one half of
our main characters adam waking up
inside of a water-filled bathtub his
struggle unplugs the drain and some lit
up item falls inside of it adam begins
screaming for help and an unknown man at
the other end of the room responds the
man turns on the lights and we discover
that both he and adam are chained to the
pipes by their ankles oh and there's a
dead man lying in the middle of the room
that's nice the man's name is dr
lawrence gordon and neither of them know
how or why they are in this lovely
establishment lawrence points to the
brand new clock on the wall saying that
whoever put them here wants them to know
the time they both find envelopes in
their pockets containing small cassette
tapes lawrence also finds a key and a
bullet which he doesn't tell adam about
they try the key on both their chains
but it doesn't seem to work adam then
notices a tape player in the hand of the
dead man in the middle of the room he
uses a shirt and drain plug to grab the
tape player out of his hands
the tape references adam living in the
shadows watching people live out their
lives calling him pathetic dr gordon's
tape says that he must kill adam before
6 am or his wife alison and daughter
diana will die
he also says that x marks the spot and
upon further investigation they hear the
man whisper follow your heart they
notice a literal shitty heart drawn on
the toilet tank next to adam he digs his
hand inside of the disgusting toilet
courtesy of jigsaw only to discover that
what they needed was inside of the
toilet tank
i really wish i hadn't checked in there
first
he finds a bag with two rusty saws
inside and the two unsuccessfully
attempt to cut off their chains dr
gordon realizes that the saws aren't
meant to cut through the chains
he wants us to cut through our feet
lawrence says he believes they have been
captured by the jigsaw killer in a
flashback we see the gruesome aftermath
of one of jigsaw's victims being
investigated by detectives tap singh and
kelly just like lawrence and adam the
man named paul had a tape player with a
set of instructions from jigsaw we also
found
this hello paul
paul was given two hours to crawl
through a razor-filled maze and find the
exit he ironically had to cut himself to
survive something he previously did to
end his own life did you cut yourself
because you
truly wanted to die or
did you just want some intention paul
was placed in this twisted situation as
jigsaw felt paul did not value his own
life because of his suicide attempt
jigsaw believes that he is helping
people by putting them in situations
where they must harm themselves to
survive and in doing so appreciate their
life more as a result imagine surviving
one of these death traps like well gee
jigsaw thanks a lot for your help do you
take zell or venmo he also carves out
jigsaw-like puzzle pieces of flesh from
his victims giving him the infamous
title jigsaw dr gordon's pen was located
at the latest jigsaw crime scene and he
was called into questioning by
detectives tap and sing he tells his
lawyer that he was visiting someone
who's not a patient during the time of
the murder and his alibi is confirmed by
detective singh they asked gordon to
listen to a testimony from the only
surviving victim of jigsaw a woman named
amanda amanda's trap is undoubtedly one
of the most iconic moments from the saw
franchise she recounts waking up in a
dark room and all she could taste were
blood and metal hello amanda
you don't know me but
i know you
the puppet in the video was created by
jigsaw and is named billy the puppet he
tells amanda that the device on her head
acts like a reverse bear trap the device
is set on a timer that will rip her jaw
open if she doesn't find the key in time
the key to the device is located in the
stomach of her dead cellmate lying on
the floor whom amanda believes is dead
unbeknownst to her the man is still
alive and is heavily drugged making him
unable to move or feel anything amanda
slices and dices her way to survival and
removes the device just in time to keep
her head from turning into amanda stew
[Music]
but what the hell was the guy laying
down supposed to do what was his test
the only way for him to survive was if
amanda carefully cut into his stomach
where the key was located or if she
failed to cut into him altogether anyway
it was a lose-lose situation for the
poor guy it doesn't seem like jigsaw
gave him any chance here which pretty
much goes against his whole gimmick of
giving people a chance to save and
liberate themselves amanda's trap scene
was a recreation of the 2003 short film
of the same name or saw.5 the short film
was used by james wan and lei 1l to
pitch a feature-length film this proved
highly successful as the saw series has
become one of the most profitable and
popular horror franchises of all time we
discovered that jigsaw chose amanda
because of her drug addiction amanda
tells detective tap that jigsaw helped
her most people are so ungrateful to be
alive
but not you
not anymore
back in the lovely bathroom adam and
lawrence realize they are being watched
through a two-way mirror a mystery man
is watching their every move on a
computer
in yet another flashback we see that
lawrence was going through a rough patch
with his wife he appeared to be
neglecting his family and drowning
himself in his work after lawrence
leaves diana and allison are held
captive at gunpoint by a man who was
hiding in diana's closet the man is
revealed to be zepp the orderly who
works at the same hospital as dr gordon
we see that detective tap is keeping a
close eye on dr gordon's apartment and
sees zepp's lovely face peeping through
the window detective tap is obsessed
with catching the jigsaw killer whom he
believes to be dr gordon while looking
over jigsaw's tape to amanda he
discovers a clue which reveals the
location of jigsaw's hideout to an old
warehouse building detective tap and
singh arrive at the hideout locked and
loaded and discover several of jigsaw's
projects including a miniature
recreation of adam and gordon's bathroom
trap they find a man strapped to a
machine underneath a red sheet and hear
someone coming up the elevator the
detectives come face to face with jigsaw
whose identity is hidden underneath a
cloak jigsaw starts up the machine which
has drills slowly approaching both sides
of his neck he tells them they have 20
seconds to find the right key and save
his life what's more important to you
officer arresting me for the life of
another human being this quote shows
that jigsaw was planning this all along
and that this is a test for detective
tap he tells tap that he is sick from
the disease eating away inside of him
enough people who don't appreciate their
blessings detective singh shoots and
stops both drills on the machine and
jigsaw goes straight assassin's creed on
their ass instead of staying with his
injured partner singh decides to chase
after jigsaw which proves to be a fatal
mistake singh steps on a tripwire and
gets his head blown clean off and jigsaw
manages to escape with the death of his
partner catching jigsaw has become very
personal for detective tap who has gone
insane and full-on conspiracy theorist
on us back in disney world adam is
looking at a photo of gordon's daughter
in his wallet and discovers a photo of
his family bound and gagged the back of
the photo reads x marks the spot
sometimes you see more with your eyes
closed adam chooses not to show gordon
the photo of his captive family so that
he doesn't freak out thanks to the clue
on the back of the photo adam tells
gordon to turn off the lights revealing
a glow-in-the-dark x behind him they
hadn't seen the x before because the
lights made the glow in the dark paint
visible after some time gordon finds a
hidden spot on the wall which contains a
locked box he uses the small key he
found inside of his envelope and inside
the secret box he discovers what
embarrassing snapshot of spongebob at
that christmas party no patrick the box
contains a cell phone a lighter
cigarettes and a written message adam
automatically asks gordon for a
cigarette but he ignores him and tries
calling the police on the phone he
realizes that the phone is only meant to
receive calls and cannot dial out this
causes gordon to remember the previous
night when he was abducted we see dr
gordon in a parking garage
unsuccessfully trying to make several
phone calls he's trying to call home to
his wife whom as we know is already
captured he is then ambushed by an
unknown assailant in a red robe wing a
creepy ass pig mask remember folks
always pay attention to your
surroundings especially if you're in a
saw movie or any horror movie for that
matter gordon questions how adam knew to
turn off the lies and he reluctantly
shows him the photo of his captive wife
and daughter gordon is now freaking out
and starts to consider killing adam he
remembers the message inside the box
which hints that the man in the middle
of the room shot himself because of a
large amount of poison in his blood
gordon sneakily laces the cigarette with
the man's blood and then turns off the
lights he turns the lights back on and
offers adam one of the cigarettes adam
then hilariously pretends to die which
fools absolutely nobody
gordon speaks to the camera and demands
to be let go claiming he killed adam
with the poisonous cigarette while
playing possum on the floor adam is
suddenly electrocuted from an unknown
source and foils the plan yeah like that
plan wasn't already foiled when adam
bust out the academy award caliber
acting chops and the oscar goes
[Music]
the jolt of electricity seemed to have
jogged adam's memory as he recalls the
night he was captured adam worked as a
photographer who is revealed to have
taken several photos of dr gordon adam
wakes up from a nap and the lights to
his apartment are cut off and instead
uses his camera's flash as a light
source he finds billy the puppet
casually chilling on his couch and
pummels it with a bat adam is then
captured by the pick masked assailant
which could have probably been avoided
if he hadn't been so careless gordon
receives a call on the cell phone and
hears his distraught daughter on the
other end zepp puts allison on the phone
who tells gordon not to believe adam's
lies and that he knew all about gordon
before this incident he asks adam just
what the hell is going on and he reveals
that he was paid to follow and take
pictures of gordon by detective tap
gordon says that detective tap went
crazy and was discharged from the force
after detective singh's death tap became
even more obsessed than catching jigsaw
who he believes to be dr gordon the
night they were captured adam followed
gordon to a motel room where he was
meeting with one of the medical students
from the hospital gordon never went
through with cheating on his wife but
receives a phone call at the motel room
from zapp i know what you're doing
doctor
he and adam were both captured later
that night gordon breaks down and
questions how he got in this situation
in the first place stating that
everything in his life was in order he
had the perfect job and the perfect
family but he threw it all away when he
decided to become unfaithful and
unappreciative of his blessings he
became the exact type of person jigsaw
looks for in a victim adam points out a
picture of zeb inside of gordon's
apartment and they realize that he is
the one responsible for all this adam
then looks up at the clock that now
reads 6am and realizes that they are out
of time this is where this movie's
insane climax begins zepp tells allison
that gordon's time is up and dials the
cell phone so she can tell him that he
failed alison gets free of her binds and
straight tackles zepp to the ground and
grabs his gun she holds him at gunpoint
and instead of just shooting the man who
held her and her daughter captive the
plot needed her to be stupid and
distracted zepp and ellison get into a
physical struggle over the gun and shots
go off alerting conspiracy theorists tap
allison stabs zepp in the leg with
scissors and tap bursts into the
apartment guns blazing hearing nothing
but gunfire on the other end of the
phone gordon breaks down into tears and
becomes extremely hysterical after an
exchange of gunfire tap and zeb get into
a brawl which allows alison and diana to
get away zepp gets the better of tap and
yells out to allison that he is now
going to kill dr gordon zepp drives over
to an abandoned building with tap
following close behind him the two get
into a struggle over zepp's gun which
ends in tap getting shot in the chest
killing him
[Music]
gordon gets electrocuted just like adam
did earlier and briefly passes out he
wakes up and once again hears the cell
phone ringing he desperately attempts to
reach out for the phone knowing that his
wife and daughter could be on the other
end he once again begins to freak out
and ignores adam's pleas for him to calm
down in one of the franchise's most
infamous moments lawrence now completely
desperate to save his family proceeds to
saw off his right foot with the rusty
saw he then crawls over to the revolver
in the dead man's hand and loads it with
the bullet from the envelope
my family
we see allison and diana inside of a
neighbor's apartment with allison
unsuccessfully trying to reach gordon on
the cell phone zepp suddenly walks into
the bathroom with a shocked look on his
face like oh [ __ ] you actually did it my
dude i'm proud of you but now i gotta
kill ya pointing his gun at gordon he
tells him that he ran out of time and
that there are rules adam suddenly jumps
up and kills zeb by bashing his head in
with the toilet tank cover numerous
times it is revealed that gordon shot
adam in the shoulder and didn't actually
kill him gordon tells a distraught adam
that he must go get help or risk
bleeding to death adam begs him not to
leave but gordon tells him that he will
send someone back to help him we're
gonna be okay
i wouldn't lie to you in this moment
both adam and gordon have gone through
hell and back together after all is said
and done lawrence gordon is the only
source of hope and comfort for adam and
i can't imagine how tragic it must have
felt to see him crawling away with
gordon gone adam is now alone with two
dead bodies in a severed foot as company
he searches zepp's body for a possible
key and comes across another tape player
hello mr handle or as they called you
around the hospital
zap we learned that zepp isn't actually
jigsaw and was actually playing his own
game the entire time zeb had a slow
acting poison in his system that only
jigsaw had the antidote for zepp's game
was to help facilitate and monitor adam
and gordon's game and kill gordon's
family if he did not kill adam in time
in the film's final shocking twist the
man believed to be dead the entire film
rises to his feet and reveals himself to
be the real jigsaw we also hear the
series's awesome theme song hello zep
composed by charlie clouser jigsaw's
real name is jon kramer and was a
patient of dr gordon suffering from
cancer this is where jigsaw became
acquainted with zeb and how he was able
to enlist him in his plan if we take a
close look at jon's notebook we can see
a concept for the reverse bear trap in
the glow-in-the-dark x showing that he
was planning this in plain sight
underneath dr gordon's nose adam is
completely shocked and realizes the man
who captured him is standing right
before him jon tells adam that the key
to his chain is in the bathtub and adam
realizes that it fell down the drain in
the very beginning of the game adam
grabs zeb's gun off the floor and points
it at jon who quickly electrocutes adam
with a remote showing that it was him
electrocuting them the entire time hello
mark paul amanda
in the film's final scene john tells
adam that most people are so ungrateful
to be alive but not him
not anymore
adam screams of agony as the end credits
role are absolutely haunting to hear and
a perfect way to end this crazy ass
movie there's a couple things i want to
go over that aren't really explained in
the film why did jigsaw put zep hendell
through a game if he was helping him
john and zepp became acquainted with
each other during their time at the
hospital where zepp was in orderly this
shows that jon and zeb must have had
extensive conversations with each other
zepp not only got to know jon but jon
also got to know zip john must have
discovered something about him and
decided to put him through his own game
as a result if we observe zepp's
behavior during the game he seems very
sadistic and enjoys instilling fear into
gordon's family
he seems to enjoy the feeling of power
and being in control which is possibly
why jigsaw decided to test him we know
that jon became acquainted with dr
gordon as his patient it is obvious that
he put gordon through this game as
gordon became unappreciative of his life
and blessings when he began cheating on
his wife john must have observed the
relationship between gordon and the
medical student and figured out he was
being unfaithful the rules and objective
for gordon were clear from the very
beginning kill adam by six or his wife
and daughter would be killed and i'll
leave you in this room
adam on the other hand was never given
an objective and was upon in gordon's
game it is clear that he was chosen
because he was as jigsaw put it hiding
in the shadow and was watching gordon
live out his life but how was adam
supposed to win much like the dead man
in amanda's game adam's survival was
dependent on dr gordon's failure gordon
did in fact end up failing and only
managed to escape the room by sawing off
his foot where does that leave adam why
would jigsaw leave him locked in the
room without having failed a specific
objective of his own you can argue that
his objective was to take action and
control of his own life this brings us
to the key to adam's chain located in
the bathtub it is my belief that adam
was meant to find the key and unlock his
chain from the very beginning changing
the entire dynamic of the game this
would have given adam the upper hand and
would have made it harder for gordon to
kill him so are you going to watch
yourself die today adam
i'll do something about it
this quote could have only made sense if
adam were somehow free and had the upper
hand on gordon
this quote is also a hint to adam that
would only make sense if you were free
and able to walk over to a mirror to
realize it was a two-way neither of
their tapes mentioned working together
and very much pins the two against each
other from the very beginning zepp
unlocks the bathroom door from the
outside so there's no reason to believe
adam could have simply escaped even if
he was free my theory is based on events
that are revealed in saw 3. without
getting into too many spoilers the
person who helped jigsaw set up this
game was known to rig other people's
games behind jigsaw's back the
individual made it nearly impossible for
people to win games and essentially set
adam up for failure as the key was never
supposed to go down the drain the drain
plug was purposely wrapped around his
foot so that he would drain the tub upon
waking up which wasn't fair and
shouldn't have happened jigsaw tells
adam the location of the key essentially
allowing him to be free had the key not
fell down the drain in the end jigsaw
locks adam inside the room because he
tries to shoot him in the back as adam
showed his intent to murder jon he
cannot allow him to simply go free
especially not with him still in the
building and that ladies and gentlemen
was saw my friends i absolutely loved
this movie and the saw franchise has
been one of my favorites ever since i
vividly remember looking forward to the
next saw movie every october as a
teenager i remember that they would
always release the clip of a trap on
youtube prior to the movie's release
which always got me super hype also that
saw theme song was my jam for quite some
time as of right now i don't have any
plans on covering the entire franchise
but let me know in the comments if
that's something you guys would be
interested in watching my friends as
always i hope you enjoy the video thank
you for tuning in and i cannot wait to
see y'all right back here in the horror
mine y'all stick around